About | blansonpost
News Team
2025 - 2026
Get to know the people responsible for publising all of the News Team's content from behind the scenes.
Jason Borrego
Poetry & Interviews
I'm a senior in the Audio/Video Production program here at Blanson. I enjoy watching competitive reality TV, writing, and am a huge fan of Honkai: Star Rail and Animal Crossing: New Horizons.
Melanie Cardenas
Art, Short Stories, & Houston Hotspots
Hello, I'm Melanie Cardenas and currently a senior at Blanson CTE High School! I'm interested in writing Short Stories, making Art, and writing about the Hotspots of Houston too! I really love to draw and I've also wrote scripts for my own comics.
Nathaniel Castro
Interviews, Life At Blanson, & Movie Reviews
Hello! I am a Senior attending Blanson CTE High School, currently enrolled in the Audio/Video Production program. I am deeply interested in the creation of expressionism, whether it's through music, poetry, or scriptwriting- I hope to find myself further indulging in this art form. Also I think penguins are the cutest animals to roam the Earth.
Ashley Choudja
Movie Reviews
Hiii, I am a senior at Blanson and I work under the movies section. I am a big fan of horror and 80's based movies.
Jean Folgar
Life at Blanson, Interviews, & Movies
I am a member of the newspaper club, National Arts Honor Society, debate and more. I am a junior, my program of study is Dental Assistant. I love to watch movies, bake and spend time with my family.
Kelly Martinez
Movie Reviews & Art
Hello, I'm Kelly, I am currently a junior and I am a very talkative and friendly person. I love all things creative!
Clarissa Ortega
Photography & Life at Blanson
I am currently a junior here at Blanson CTE and in the A/V Program. I enjoy baking and sleeping, and I'm looking forward to this year!
Esther Ramirez
Short Stories
Hi!!! I am Esther Ramirez. I am currently a junior in the Dental Assistant Program. I am very jolly and full of energy (even though I do fall asleep in class). My favorire hobbies are sewing and anything arts & crafts related.
Martha Ramirez
Art & Photography
Hey I'm Martha or also called Martita. People know me as a jolly person & a nerd! I enjoy drawing in my own free time or playing games with my friends
( ˶&deg;ㅁ&deg;) !!
Josue Reyes
Photography & Poetry
I am a junior here at Blanson. I am a Photography 2 student that wants to share and develop his photos, and also pursue poetry as a hobby. I spend most of my time right now playing video games with friends and stressing about assignments.
Oliver Romero
Movie & Anime Reviews, Interviews
Hi, I'm Oliver Romero. I am a super big nerd who has a lot to say. I love video games, movies and anime and all the above and more. And if anyone wants to debate opinions I am here to hear. (=w=)/
Joseph Zapata
Sports & Photography
I am a funny and energetic person who enjoys playing sports and video games. I believe everyone should be informed about the sports world!
311 West Road
Houston, TX 77038
281.591.4950
