Home | blansonpost
SPRING BREAK IS NEXT WEEK!
Event Title
Event Time
Event Date
Change the event description to include your own content. Adjust the settings to customize the style.
September 2026
SUN
MON
TUE
WED
THU
FRI
SAT
1/1
See what the SkillsUSA members from Blanson have done.
Blanson SkillsUSA Champion the Future Through Santa Donations Project
Blanson SkillsUSA Students Return to Grantham to Champion the Future
Written By Students
Books & Movies
All The Bright Places
Review Written By:
Keydith Manjarres
A Night in the Woods
Review Written By: Monzerrat Palacios
A story driven adventure game that focuses on exploring, growing up, and learning how to deal with change. While the game has a lot of humor and laid back moments it also deals with deeper topics like depression, anxiety, identity, and feeling "stuck"
when everyone else is moving forward in life.
This book is filled with drama and romance. This book starts off with introducing the main character, Violet Markey. From the beginning, they go into detail about Violet's life and her struggles.
I recommend you to read this book and watch the movie if you love drama and romance series and movies.
Emissary Zero
Emissary Zero begins with players preparing inside a research facility as they get ready to get deployed on a new mission to a remote planet. Once they arrive the team encounters a bloody scene making it clear that something went wrong. From there the story slowly builds tension as the mystery deepens making the player feel more isolated with each discovery.
Paincore
Malignant
Malignant is a 2021 horror film directed by James Wan.
The movie starts off with the main character, Madison Mitchell, arguing and getting into a fight with her abusive partner. She is pushed into a wall and injures her head and ever since that day, she has been experiencing headaches and along with that she is also experiencing horrific nightmares that are visions of murders happening across town.
This game is a fast paced horror action game that throws players into a chaotic world filled with monstrous creatures and unpredictable dangers. Set in a collapsed industrial facility where experiments have gone horribly wrong. The tone of this game is intense, chaotic, and constantly pushing the player forward.
Mid 90s
Josue Reyes
"A 13-year-old in the 1990s LA grapples with a turbulent home life during summer. Meanwhile, he finds solace in newfound friends at a Motor Avenue skateboard shop." Mid90s is a coming-of-age and drama film both written and directed by Jonah Hill. It follows it's main character, Stevie, as he goes through life with his newfound friendgroup, consisting of Ray, Ruben, F*cksh*t (Yes, that is his actual name in the movie), and Fourth Grade.
Meet Mr. Jenkins!
Interviewed By: Jason Borrego
A man with a loud and proud passion for film, Mr. Jenkins is widely known for being the primary teacher of Audio/Video Production here at Blanson through thick and thin. But where does this passion come from, and how did it land him in the spotlight that we all see him in today? These are just some of the questions that I got the chance to sit down and ask him in this exclusive interview.
