NFL 2025-2026 Season | blansonpost
What is going on in the NFL?
The NFL is suffering an injury crisis at the BEGINNING of the season. Fans are speculating the injuries are stemming from the type of the grass, cleats, and failed recovery. Regardless of the cause the NFL is in serious trouble if they cannot help prevent injuries at this high
rate. We have seen our favorite players get thrown around and injured but when does this end is the real question.
Key players injured already
● Joe Burrow, QB, Bengals
: The quarterback who is undoubtedly one of the best in the league has faced an injury already. Burrow sustained turf toe in week 3, Joe will be out for several games his earlier return date is week 7.
● Lamar Jackson, QB, Ravens
: The speedy quarterback who injured his hamstring in week 4 has not been listed with a return date. He has been listed a non participant in training all of this week.
● Will Levis, QB, Titans
: The quarterback whose spot has been in contention since the Titans decided to draft Cam Ward with their first overall pick in the 2025 NFL draft. Levis is out for the season with a shoulder injury and may have lost his touch in Tennessee.
Three starting quarterbacks have already faced injuries sidelining them for a prolonged amount of time but the long list of injuries hasn't even been shown yet.
● Malik Nabers, WR, Giants
: The sophomore who has seen more QB changes than any other super star WR in the league sustained an ACL tear sitting him out until next season.
● Tyreek Hill, WR, Dolphins
: The aging WR suffered a disgusting knee injury that is sidelining him for the entire season as well.
● James Connor, RB, Cardinals
: The RB who was projected to have an amazing season after having one last year suffered a foot injury ultimately sidelining him for the season.
● Nick Bosa, EDGE, 49ers
: The defensive beast suffered an ACL tear in week 3 who will not return until next season.
That's at least 5 superstars out for either half or the whole season. There's an injury crisis that is like no other. This isn't like any other season where there is a mass amount of injuries; this is an entirely different case. Players have been going down like dominoes falling after another. Will the NFL ever fix this problem or is this just a part of the sport of football? A belief that I hold is that games should be held two weeks apart but some may ask how that keeps the sport interesting but the simple answer is spreading games out
throughout a week or weekend. The NFL has always stuck to its traditional schedule of all games being held on mondays, thursdays, and sundays. I believe that is time for change in the NFL. At this rate of injuries who knows who will be seeing play for our favorite teams by the end of the season and playoffs.
- Written by Joseph Zapata
